# COM1001 Spring 2022

## 1. Introduction

Welcome! This repository code examples, practical sheets, and slides to support
the Spring Semester of the COM1001 module "Introduction to Software Engineering"
at the University of Sheffield.

The lecture content of the Spring Semester focuses on Web Application
Development and Testing using [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/) and a framework
called [Sinatra](http://sinatrarb.com/). We will be learning
[RSpec](https://rspec.info/) to write tests. We will also be using other
technologies along the way, including
[Capybara](https://teamcapybara.github.io/capybara/) to automatically drive our
web applications for testing; [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/) as a backend
database, and [Sequel](https://sequel.jeremyevans.net/) – an Object-Relational
Mapping framework.

Files will be added to this repository every week, so ensure that you regularly
do a `git pull`!

### Contents of this README file

1. [Introduction](#1-introduction)
2. [Cloning and Installing this
   Repository](#2-cloning-and-installing-this-repository)

. [Problems or Feedback]()

## 2. Cloning and Installing this Repository

You can clone this repository at home and on Codio. The code examples will only
run on Codio, however.

To clone the repository, you will need to issue the following command at the
Terminal. (If you hover over the command, a clipboard icon will appear. If you
click it, you can copy the command to your clipboard and then paste it into your
terminal.)

```console
git clone https://github.com/philmcminn/com1001.git
```



# 5. Problems or Feedback

We welcome feedback including any constructive criticism or positive comments
that you may have.

If you are experiencing problems with using the repository, please contact the
module lecturer – [Phil McMinn](https://mcminn.io). 

Please note that the teaching team are limited in the help that we can offer on
specific system setups. If you are experiencing significant difficulties, please
use Codio, where we can give you full support if you run into problems. 
